-: In this lecture, you'll learn the principles

behind the tactics.

You'll start off learning

where the power is in any relationship

and how you can direct that power,

how to recognize when you see a pattern

in your relationships, and then what to do about it,

and how to identify

what key elements are really missing in your relationships

and what you can do about that.

Let's start out talking about the power in any relationship.

There are three principles that are really behind all

of the tactics in this program.

Principle number one,

I am in charge of every relationship in my life.

I'd like you to repeat that after me. You ready?

I am in charge of every relationship in my life.

Say that again.

I am in charge of every relationship in my life.

One more time.

I am in charge of every relationship in my life.

The reason we wanna keep that principle in mind is

because frequently when I ask people if they come in

to a session or if they come into a seminar,

"So what's the problem?

What brings you in here?"

If it's a managing difficult relationships type of seminar.

And most often people come in

and they start saying, well,

the reason I'm here is because my boss, X, Y, Z,

or because my spouse, blah, blah, blah,

or because, you know, this customer, yada, yada,

and now I got sent here.

And we basically tend

to blame the other people in our relationship

for the problems in our relationship.

I'd like you right now to stop

and think about the most difficult relationship

that you have or some relationship challenge

that you're constantly facing,

or maybe just a big challenge that you're facing right now.

Stop and think about that

and write down in the materials that came with this lecture

or on a separate sheet of paper why the problem exists.

Why are you having this challenge?

Because, how would you finish that sentence?

Now chances are, if you're like most of us,

you wrote down something along the lines of, well,

I am having a problem with Mary,

because she won't stop backstabbing me at work,

or I'm having a problem with my spouse

because they just don't really treat me

the way they used to.

But when we are honest with ourselves,

we can admit that the truth of the matter is

if we have a problem in a relationship,

it's because of us, right?

What I'd like you to do now is take out the same worksheet

or look at the same piece of paper where you wrote down

because, and then you wrote down the reason

why you believe you're having a problem

in one of your relationships,

and I'd like you to now write down the lead-in line

or starter phrase.

We'll be using lots of those in these lectures, because I,

and then finish the sentence.

If you don't already know

what you are doing to contribute to the problem

in that relationship, think of something that maybe,

maybe you're doing, for example,

because I haven't learned to communicate effectively

with this person yet, because I haven't paid attention to

where this relationship is going,

and now we're at a crossroads, because I, what?

If there is a contribution

that you may be making to the downfall of that relationship,

what do you think it may be?

So jot that down now.

And when we do exercises such as the one you just did,

when you're having a challenge with someone,

a communication problem,

maybe it's just in one instance

or maybe it's in the entire relationship,

when you're trying to work through that

and you're thinking about the reasons the problem may exist,

if you can use more often the lead-in line, because I,

because I, because I.

You know how your thought patterns

affect your speech patterns, right?

When you think things,

they tend to fly out your mouth

if you think them all the time.

What sometimes we don't realize is

how our speech patterns affect our thought patterns.

And if we are thinking to ourselves, oh, you know,

I'm struggling at my work because my customers are this way

and my boss is this way,

and the economy is this way,

we tend to have that victim mentality

and it does seem to be that all of a sudden

the more we think it,

the more the universe conspires against us.

But if we can retrain our speech patterns

and our thought patterns to always recognize,

"This is about me.

This relationship is my relationship,

and I am in charge of every relationship in my life,

therefore it can only be something that I'm doing,

so this relationship is breaking down,

or I'm struggling in my job,

or I'm struggling in this conversation, because I," what?

And if we start to use that verbal pattern more,

start our sentences with because I, it's empowering,

because the only way we can empower ourselves

to fix situations in our lives is when we,

first of all, recognize we are the cause

of every breakdown in every relationship in our life.

Having said that,

when we need to talk to others about what's bothering us

or when someone does something

and we wanna bring it up right there,

how can we properly say that

in a way that doesn't disempower ourselves

and lets the other person know clearly and assertively?

Meaning I'm going to tell you upfront

and honestly what's bothering me.

How can we do that in a way that's effective

while not making it about someone else?

For example, let's say that you're at home with your spouse

or with a best friend

and they do something that bothers you.

For example, they say that they are going

to take out the garbage and you watch the garbage man

as he or she drives past your house

and doesn't seem to stop.

Then you realize, well, that's because the garbage

was never taken out.

You want to address that right there.

How do you do that without disempowering yourself

by saying something such as, "You know,

you really make me mad when you say you're going

to do something and then you don't."

When we use the danger phrase that makes me, you make me,

it makes me, and we'll be talking more about keeping

a danger phrase list.

When you use phrases such as those,

it makes me, that makes me, you make me,

I'm giving away the power right there.

I'm saying, that is making me something.

You make me angry.

When the truth of the matter is when we get angry

because of a difficult person

or difficult behavior, what they're doing,

it's not about that behavior or them, it's about us.

It's about things that it brings up in us

that makes us angry.

It has nothing to do with the other person.

How you communicate with me, that is about you,

how I react to it, how I respond to it,

how I communicate back with you,

that is all about me.

Every word that I speak is simply

a testament to the person I believe I am, nothing more.

So if I need to express myself in a way that

is not about you,

'cause it's not about you, it's about me,

I can use the hamburger, and you can too.

It's simple, clear and effective.

Here's how it goes.

Repeat this after me.

When you, I feel, because.

Do that again, when you, I feel because.

One more time, when you, I feel, because.

When you can clearly express

how you're feeling when somebody does something in,

for example, a hamburger verbal pattern, people hear it,

they respond to it, it affects them.

When you instead use the wrong verbal pattern such as

that makes me, it makes me,

the other person tends to speed up his or her self-talk

and start to argue with you, at least internally.

Meaning if I were, instead of to say something such as,

"You know, it makes me so mad when you say you're gonna

do something like take out the garbage and you don't."

Saying that is going to speed up the self-talk

in the other person,

so they're going to start thinking something along the lines

of, "What do you mean I make you mad?

I don't make you mad. You make yourself mad."

And they're going to start thinking things

that they would not think.

If I instead use a more effective verbal pattern such as,

"When you tell me you're going

to do something like take out the garbage

and then you don't, I feel frustrated,

because I love you

and try to do what I say I'm going to do for you."

When you say things like that,

people will look at you as if, (gasps) I'm so sorry.

And then you'll think,

that's what I was looking for this whole time.

I was looking to get through to you the way I was feeling,

but it just wasn't getting through.

We weren't connecting.

And remember that when you don't connect with somebody else,

that is about you.

If you have a message that other people don't seem

to understand, it's not up to other people to learn

to understand our message.

It's up to us to learn to get through to other people

and that's really what this entire course is about.

We're going to be talking about different ways

to alter our speech patterns

so that we can more effectively communicate

and connect with other people.

But we have to remember,

it is up to us to navigate our relationship.

And you'll hear me sometimes refer

to our relationship as if it's singular.

And that's with a big R,

because really we're gonna be talking about how

it's all the same relationship.

And when you have a relationship

that seems to be going off course

or a conversation that seems to be going off course,

many of us get stuck verbally.

We don't know what to say when we wanna say,

"Hey, I don't like what's going on here

in this conversation.

You know, some of us, when we're in a conversation

that gets difficult, we'll say,

"I just don't wanna talk about it anymore."

And we'll leave.

If we do that, if we cut off a conversation

or a relationship because it's bringing up things

in us that's frustrating us and we get angry and cut it off,

what happens is it just (clicks tongue) pops up

in another relationship, right?

You can't do that.

You can't ditch a relationship,

ditch a job, ditch a person,

ditch a situation without having it come back again.

You have to work through it.

And if I need to work through a conversation,

work through a relationship,

you need to navigate those

and you don't know how to express yourself.

Just remember in the situation,

navigational phrases, navigational phrases.

For example, when you're in a car

and the car goes off the road,

Let's say that you are teaching someone to drive.

You're in the passenger seat,

the car slides off the side of the road and you think,

whoa, whoa, whoa, we need to get back on track.

What might you say to the other person?

You know, stop.

You need to change direction.

If you find that you're lost,

as we are in many conversations or in many relationships,

what would you say?

I think we may need to stop here and regain our focus.

Maybe we need to back up.

We might need to change directions.

We seem to have taken an unfortunate turn,

and I believe we should stop here.

When you learn to speak

as though you are navigating a vessel like a car or a ship,

and recognize, that's the same type of verbiage

that I can use when I'm navigating a conversation

or a relationship,

what happens is as you're saying those things,

people recognize it as language

that savvy communicators tend to use.

Therefore they will pay attention to it.

And it paints a visual picture in the mind of the person

with whom you're communicating.

Therefore it's more effective,

'cause we are visual communicators.

In addition to that,

remember that when you want

to communicate with someone in an effective way,

that generally means that you're going

to be deliberate about what side

of the brain you're apologizing to.

And we talk more about this in upcoming lectures,

but basically there's the left-hand logical side

of the brain

and there's the right-hand emotional side of the brain.

The left hand is where we keep facts and figures.

We do math equations, you keep language there.

Remember, L is for language, left-hand side of the brain.

Then we have the right hand side of the brain

where we keep creative thoughts.

That's where we do our conceptual thinking,

emotional thinking, and when you want to specifically speak

to the right-hand side of the brain,

because maybe you want to touch somebody's vagus nerve,

which runs from there to there,

and it's what we feel when we feel emotional.

Or you might want to get someone out

of that side and speak to the logical left-hand side

of the brain, which draws them out of the emotional side

of of the brain.

How do you know how to speak to which side of the brain?

We have to know the difference

between emotional language and factual language.

When is it appropriate to speak emotional language

or factual language?

When you need to make that personal emotional connection

or what I would be calling the PEC,

you need to know how to do that, right?

For example, when you are being deliberate

in your communication and you know, all right,

this is an occasion

where I should speak to the right-hand side of the brain

or the left-hand side of the brain,

that's a huge step for most communicators,

but then we need to know how to do it right?

I'm going to be giving you several tips

that will help you deliberately speak to one side

of the brain or the other.

The first is the apology,

because we frequently have to apologize to people.

It's something that comes up in business a lot

and in our personal lives.

And look at the difference when you use tactical language

to apologize to somebody.

Most of us make the mistake

of saying, when it's time to apologize,

something such as, I'm sorry.

That should be at the top of your danger phrase list

because I'm sorry is something

that we say when we aren't really sorry, first of all.

And when people hear us say I'm sorry,

people tend not to really have a reaction to that.

I mean, now we have all of these machines

that you can hook up to a person's brain

and you can monitor involuntary bodily responses such

as brainwaves that respond to language.

Everything we say to somebody has

an involuntary bodily response attached to it.

When I use certain words,

feelgood chemicals get released in your brain.

When I use other words,

feel bad chemicals get released in your brain.

And if I am more deliberate in my communication,

for example, when I need to deliver an apology,

I can be more effective

at reaching the person the way I'd like

to reach them on an emotional level,

because I'm aware what side

of the brain I'm speaking to and how to do that.

For example, with the apology,

instead of saying something such as, I'm sorry,

or even worse, by the way, sorry about that,

which basically says to the person, I'm not sorry, try this.

These three steps for apologizing are step number one,

use the phrase I apologize.

Sounds simple, but if you keep a danger phrase

and power phrase list,

what you'll notice is you'll stop those times

when you were about to say I'm sorry

and recognize so many occasions

that it's totally inappropriate

and you won't say anything at all.

For example, if someone bumps into you at the grocery store.

Instead of saying I'm sorry, as most women do,

you'll be more apt to stop and say nothing,

which is what we should be doing

and waiting for the other person to apologize to us.

So saying the actual phrase, I apologize,

at the beginning of your apology, sounds simple,

It's critical, and it's step number one.

Step number two is that I.

What I mean by that is many people will say, hmm,

"I'm sorry if I said something that offended you,"

or, "I'm sorry if you were inconvenienced,"

and that is the opposite of an apology.

What that says to somebody is, hmm,

if you were really inconvenienced, I would apologize,

but I'm not convinced yet.

So instead when we say, I apologize that I, for example,

that I kept you waiting,

that I said that in front of our friends,

that I turned that project in late,

that I didn't complete the goal that we had agreed to,

that I didn't do what I said I was going to do.

And then once you've done that,

I apologize that I,

then you wanna give the real reason

why you did what you did.

And that starts with a because I statement.

We use a lot of different lead-in lines in here.

As you probably have noticed, we've used a few already,

and lead-in lines help you start,

they help you get the message out at the beginning

so that then we can fill in the blank at the end

and it will be easier and it will sound more effective.

It'll have more of an impact on the other person.

For example, lead-in lines like these three lead-in lines,

I apologize that I, because I,

are going to help you say the apology the correct way.

Instead of saying, for example, oh,

"I'm sorry if your feelings were hurt."

If we said instead,

"Or I'm sorry that I didn't do

what I told you I was going to do.

It's just because I was being selfish

and thinking about me rather than us."

When we say things like that, people hear it,

because we're picking the right verbal patterns

that activate the right part of the brain,

but it's not natural for us to do that.

That's why we have to learn communication skills.

If it was natural,

they would call them communication talents.

But you know, these issues we have

to address using things like lead-in lines and hamburgers?

They tend to come up again and again

and again and again, right?

Even if you think, for example,

that you quit a job because of something

that was going on there

and instead of working through the issue, you quit the job,

or you were with somebody

who was bringing up something in you and you terminated,

so you thought, that relationship?

Ever notice how it comes up again in the next person

that you have a relationship with?

Unless you work through it.

Why does this keep happening?

Because we have patterns that we experience.


Stop
Play
Start
Play
Play
Start
Play
Play
Start
Play
Play
Play
Play
Play
Start
Play
Play
Start
Start
information alert
Schedule learning time
Learning a little each day adds up. Research shows that students who make learning a habit are more likely to reach their goals. Set time aside to learn and get reminders using your learning scheduler.
Business Communication Training
Rating: 