-: Each one of us has an individual unique pattern

that we see pop up again and again and again and again

in our relationships, both personal and professional.

Why does this happen?

Let's talk about that

starting with principle number two.

There really is only one relationship.

And we wanna keep this principle in mind

whenever we communicate

because we tend to separate our relationships.

We tend to say, for example, "Oh, my boss,

that's one relationship.

My spouse, oh, that's a totally different relationship.

My children, that's totally different.

And the person at the grocery store,

oh, that's a unique relationship."

And the truth of the matter is,

while they might be different forms of our relationship,

it's all connected, right?

I mean, there is one common link

in every relationship we have, right?

What's the common link?

You, or me.

And to be an effective communicator,

we must first realize there's only one relationship here,

there's one big relationship.

There are different dimensions of it,

but if I am so arrogant

as to separate this person from that person

and basically say, "This relationship is more important

than that relationship,

therefore I'm going to give

this important relationship the better side of me

than I'm going to give that less important relationship."

If we do that, we're never really going to be able

to develop as quickly as we could

or reach our potential as if we realized

that there's only one relationship going on here.

And when we realize why relationships break down,

we will be able to overcome the things that come up in us

when we recognize difficult behavior

or when we have a difficult relationship.

Those things in us that difficult people

or challenging relationships bring up

that has nothing to do with the relationship

or the people.

When we recognize those

and we recognize, "Okay, these things keep coming up

because I'm in one big relationship

and it's about me,"

the two big things we've discussed so far,

"now we can do something about it."

And here's the first thing I'd like you to do,

write down on the page that came with your resources,

a relationship that you're struggling with

or a particular instance that you're struggling with,

a person, a conversation, a situation.

What's something right now that you're thinking about

where you think, "Ah-ha, I can think of a challenge.

Mary, she's the challenge,"

or, "Yeah, I can think of a big challenge,

this with my spouse,

or this with my kids,

or this with my boss."

What's something big in a relationship

or a relationship you're struggling with?

Write it down and then write down the reason why

you think you're struggling in that relationship.

Ready? Go.

Now I'd like you to think,

really think what do you believe is missing

that is causing these breakdowns

or that is attracting these difficult people?

What do you think is missing?

What's the key element?

For example, if you're struggling dealing with your spouse,

maybe you believe that the key element

that's missing there is love.

They just don't love you like they used to.

Maybe it's your boss

and you think that the key element

what's causing this breakdown, respect.

If they just respected you a little bit more,

that would fix things.

Think about what the elements are that are missing.

Okay, you got them?

Now let's move along to principle number three.

And principle number three is,

and I'd like you to repeat this after me,

"The only thing that could possibly be missing

is what I am not giving."

Okay, repeat that.

"The only thing that could possibly be missing

is what I'm not giving."

When we recognize the things that are missing,

so we think in our relationships.

For example, if you think in my personal relationship,

boy, I believe that my spouse

isn't loving enough, isn't romantic enough.

I believe that my kids, they're not respectful enough.

I believe that my friends, they're not attentive enough.

I'd like you to think about your personal relationships

and some issues that you struggle with

and what you think those things are

that are causing the breakdowns.

You know, is it respect or trust or love or whatever?

Then, in your professional relationship,

think about a few of those,

the challenges that you have.

What elements do you think are missing

that if they were there would heal the rift,

would make the relationship better?

And think about, for example,

the relationship you have with yourself

'cause there's really only three categories of relationship,

it's the trinity of relationship, so to speak.

You have a relationship with your maker, or the universe,

or whatever you think is the source and makes you up,

you have a relationship with yourself,

you're talking to yourself,

and then you have a relationship

with everyone else on the planet.

We're basically always communicating with

and thinking about and talking to ourselves,

everybody else,

and then this invisible force in the room,

whatever you call it.

Those are the three things.

What do you believe is the missing element

that would heal the relationship

that you have with yourself?

I mean, when you talk to yourself,

what do you think could make you stronger,

the relationship that you have with yourself?

Is it that you're missing confidence?

Is it that you are missing maybe self-love?

Is it that you are not caring for yourself,

making time for yourself, respecting yourself?

What is it?

Then ask yourself, "What am I hoping for?

You know, if I actually could infuse my relationship

with this thing,

if I could infuse my relationship with my spouse

with more romance,

if I could infuse the relationship I have with my boss

with more respect,

if I could find the self-esteem that vanished five years ago

and put it back into my relationship

that I have with myself,

what would I get out of that?"

So, ask yourself really,

"What are these key elements that are missing?"

Then once you have done that,

you might be thinking to yourself, "Well,

that's really the thing,

is they should be more respectful.

My boss should respect me more.

My spouse should be more romantic with me.

My children should respect me more.

My friends should be more loyal and stop talking about me."

We tend to,

once we have determined what's missing in our relationships,

we tend to assign other people the task

of infusing our relationships with that missing thing.

But we're not going to do that

because we're going to be effective.

Instead of thinking or saying things

like, "They should be more romantic,

they should really show me more respect."

Replace that with the lead in line,

"I will be more romantic with them.

I will be more respectful with them.

I will do whatever it is that's missing."

Because when you do that,

when you do what we have just talked about now,

the three principles,

when you keep them in mind and you recognize,

"All right, I'm gonna stop those ineffective,

useless, verbal and thought patterns

that say things like, 'This is your fault.

You should do this.

If you would just do that,'

and I'm going to replace them with,

'I recognize I am in charge of this relationship.

There really is only one relationship here,

and whatever I think is missing,

not only am I the only one who can

infuse my relationship with the missing element,

I'm the only one who will, and I can.

Therefore, it is up to me to heal these relationships,

steer these conversations,

and get what I want based on what I do.'"

When you realize those things, those three principles,

this is me, it's all the same, and I'm in charge.

That is what being a principle-centered communicator

is really all about.

In this lecture, you learned how to establish power,

who has it in any relationship,

and how to direct that power

using things like navigational phrases.

You learned how to recognize patterns in relationship,

what they really mean,

and what you can do about it

once you've recognized the patterns.

And you've identified

what key elements may be missing

in some of your relationships,

and who the only person is

who can infuse your relationships with that missing element.